		    User Contributed Software
		@(#)README	6.2 (Berkeley) 6/7/86

The subtree /usr/src/new contains programs contributed by the user
community.  The following software is included:

Directory	Description				Contributor(s)
---------	-----------				-----------
B		B progamming language & environment	CWI
ansi		ANSI and VMS standard tape handler	Tom Quarles, Berkeley
apl		APL system				Purdue
bib		bibliography system			Arizona
cpm		CP/M floppy access package		Helge Skrivervik
help		Help system				John Kunze, Berkeley
jove		Emacs editor				Jon Payne
kermit		File transfer protocol			Columbia University
mh		MH mail system				Rand Corporation, UCI
mkmf		Makefile generator			Peter Nicklin, Berkeley
news		USENET bulletin board system		Matt Glickman, Berkeley; Rick Adams, CSS
notes		notes files bulletin board system	Illinois
patch		apply diffs to originals		Larry Wall, SDC
rcs		revision control system			Walter Tichy, Purdue
rn		news reader				Larry Wall
spms		software project management system	Peter Nicklin, Berkeley
sumacc		MacIntosh cross development system	William Croft, Stanford
tac		reverse a file by segments		Jay Lepreau, Utah
tools		miscellaneous tools			John Kunze, Berkeley
umodem		File transfer protocol			Lauren Weinstein

The following which are supplied in the 4.3 distribution are not included
in the 2.10 distribution because of space considerations together with the
probability that they wouldn't be portable to 2.10.  If any are ported,
the 2.10BSD project would like a copy ...

Directory	Description				Contributor(s)
---------	-----------				-----------
X		X Window system				M.I.T.
courier		remote procedure call package		Eric Cooper, Berkeley
dipress		Xerox Interpress Tools			Xerox
dsh		distributed shell			Dave Presotto, Berkeley
emacs		Gnumacs					Richard Stallman
enet		Packet filter				Jeff Mogul, Stanford
hyper		Hyperchannel support tools		Steve Glaser, Tektronix
icon		ICON system				Arizona
mmdf		MMDF mail system			Dr. Dave Farber, Delaware
nntp		remote news access			Phil Lapsley, Berkeley
np100		Utilities for Interlan NP100		MICOM-Interlan
pathalias	uucp router				Peter Honeyman, Princeton
sunrpc		Remote procedure call package		Sun Microsystems
xns		XNS/Courier user code			J.Q. Johnson, Cornell

The individuals responsible for the software should be identified in
the accompanying 4.3BSD documents which describe the user contributed
software.  All software included here has been written by outside
parties; we gratefully acknowledge their contributions.

Consult ``Installing and Operating 4.3BSD on the VAX'' (SMM:1) for
instructions on how to extract the user contributed software.
The organization of the software is such that a single make command
will compile and/or install most of it. Some of the software requires
customization before it can be built and installed. The software
requiring customization is listed in the top level Makefile in OPTDIR.
To compile everything else, simply type

	make

Once this is done, to install the default software in the /usr/new
area of the file system type

	make installall

to install only the subset of software installed on the distribution
tape type

	make install

Most subdirectories have README files and individual Makefiles.  If
you want only some of the software contained here go to the appropriate
directories and use the ``make'' and ``make install'' commands to compile
and install the desired system.  As distributed, all the default software
is set up to be installed in ${DESTDIR}/usr/new, where DESTDIR is a make
macro that can be supplied on the command line.  Consult each directory's
README file for the information needed to change this.

The software included here is in use at Berkeley, or other sites
running 4.3BSD (or an earlier derivative). Please remember that this is
contributed software and, as such, we do not ``support'' it in the same
manner as that software which is part of the standard distribution.
Most subsystems have either a README file or doc directory that
should be consulted to find an interested party to which bugs and/or
bug fixes should be sent. In certain cases these people are located at
Berkeley; this does not imply they are part of the Computer Systems
Research Group, please contact them as individuals.

	Mike Karels
	Kirk Mckusick
	Jim Bloom
	Miriam Amos
	Kevin Dunlap
